cases below the $70 mark with breathable
mesh front panels have become rarer in
the last few years but the trend is
starting to pick back up at CES we saw a
deluge of 60 to 70 dollar mesh cases
like the fantex p300 a which takes the
principles of the P 400 a and down cost
them and the Silverstone for r1 which is
meant to be a successor to our lawn
praised silver stone our al zero six the
RL 0-6 was a long time budget
masterpiece it managed chart-topping
performance at around $70 accomplished
with four 120mm fans a short chassis
length that brought the fans closer to
components and a mesh front now we're
reviewing the spiritual successor to the
Silverstone RL zero six and that's the
Farah R one mesh variants that we saw at
CES before that this video is brought to
you by e BJ's RT x 2060 kayo we
previously reviewed the RT x 2060 kayo
model for its fuse down RT x 2080 die
that uniquely benefitted blender and
some professional applications offering
better performance than expected in some
pro workloads while offering usual
strong RT x 2060 performance for gaming
the RT x 2060 ko also includes the game
deliver us the moon for free with EVGA
geforce r-tx cards EVGA is actively
restocking its RT x 2060 ko with new
ties which you can find a link to the
description below the fara r1 is one of
several cases in what's supposed to be a
line silverstone like many companies is
going to keep the cost low on the
streets of cases and it's doing so by
reusing the tooling as much as possible
there's nothing criminal about this in
fact it's a good idea if it can be done
properly and some companies do cut
corners where they shouldn't but for the
most part reusing tooling and changing
the face of the cases or the
arrangements of the fans or other
features is a great way to get extra
mileage out of it while driving the cost
down for a more mass consumer friendly
product so that's the goal of the fara
we chose the art one for review over
something like the v1 because we cared
about the mesh front of the case
we thought it'd do better in our bench
and it's more interesting to our style
of building and for most of our audience
well ventilated cases have been really
rare in the last few years the old
course here 200 R got several
recommendations
from us even in the last couple years
it's been around for half of a decade at
this point and that's because there
weren't many good ones now that's
changing the Fraxel match fic obviously
has been a fairly budget well we'll put
that in big air close quotes there but
budget ish case that about seventy
dollars unfortunately it's best with
extra fans and unfortunately seventy
dollars isn't that budget typically we
prefer to look for something like 50
bucks or 60 for our low ish end case and
they can be good but they're rare and
the our l06 was one of the best ones
we've worked with this year that's
changing there's plenty of those coming
out this is one of them and it's at a
perfect time really because given our
impending economic doom everybody's
going to be looking at cases like this
for budget bill there's always a bright
side here Silverstone does in fact refer
to this case as the Farah r1 it moves
away from its letter letter number
number scheme that it's used for years
that everybody has complained about of
course if you ask gns a senior camera
operator Andrew what the case is called
it's Ferrari because look at the side of
the box let's it's what do you thought
it was maybe that would be what DIY PC
would name its zonda successor the front
of the case is really close to the core
components this is a trend you're going
to see a lot more of in the next couple
of years
that's because case companies are
finally figuring out that hey we don't
need a bunch of empty space where the
optical drives used to be anymore and
people aren't really buying hard drives
so why is it there so they're getting
shorter the Corsair 220 t is another one
that did this and bring the front in
closer to the case does benefit its
thermals because naturally if you have
fans up there which this one does not
then you can get the air straight into
the components and there's very little
distance for the air at home wonder off
and find some other place to exit the
case based on the pressure system that
may have developed within the case this
one includes only one rear stock fan
four out of box and it's a 120mm fan
it's not particularly exciting it's
supposed to be $60 for the steel version
and 65 for tempered-glass the current
pricing from what we looked at when
writing the script doesn't reflect that
it's about 70 but it's supposed to be 60
at $60 it's a significantly better
position than 70 but either way some
higher-quality features the case
build quality is for the price point
genuinely superb it's much higher than
we'd expect for around this price point
although accent all the fans shows where
the cost is gone it is into the
structure of the case which is better on
average than most of its competitors now
the NR 600 is the closest competitor
that stands out from coolermaster that
should be around the same price but it
isn't and that's the one we'd point to
for something that's the most
structurally similar and the most
competitive thermally the actually the
white paint on this one is extremely
well done if you've seen any of our
factory tours we've talked in the past
about how white paints really difficult
to do on cases where you're mixing and
matching different metals or or plastic
and metal and in this instance the white
does actually match really damn well
between the panels and one of which
again is plastic and that's pretty rare
to do so this is a point that if you
really want a white case and you want it
at this price point it's gonna be hard
to do better than this one but there's a
lot of downsides and there's some
upsides too
let's get into the build notes then
we'll talk thermals and then we'll go
through whether it's worth it or not the
side panels are as simple as possible
both for the glass and the steel the
tempered glass side has four holes
drilled into it that slip over posts
which are clearly repurposed motherboard
standoffs which is a design that we've
seen since the very first tempered glass
cases came in for review there are
downsides to this method there's nothing
to catch the glass if it slips when
removing the panel and replacing the
panel will inevitably leave fingerprints
around the edges and potentially on the
inside the upsides are that it's cheap
it's simple and blocks as little of the
window as possible it's fine what we
really take issue with is the steel
panel which harkens back to the days of
needing to people or at least three
hands or two hands and your face to
close a computer it hooks into the
chassis with fragile tabs that get
smashed flat if the panel isn't lined up
properly and it must be pressed down on
three of the four sides to slide into
place yes it keeps the cases price low
but we'd be perfectly happy if we never
saw one of these panels again because we
worked with them for at least probably
over a decade at this point in a similar
price cutting vein
only two of the stock PCIe slot covers
are removable the rest are the punch-out
disposable variety we have enough loose
slot covers to fill 50 cases at this
point so that's fine by us but it's a
potential shortcoming for some users
it's an interesting detail as well to
cut corners and probably shaved another
half dollar off the cost the case there
are two sets of cable cut outs at the
front edge of the motherboard one of
which is covered up by full width ATX
ports smaller form factors can take
advantage of the newer cutouts for less
clutter while ATX boards may still have
plenty of cabling routing room without
the extra set cutouts on the motherboard
tray may be generous but they're more
scarce along the surface of the power
slash route we use a standard ATX power
supply for case testing and since the
top of the power supply is almost flush
with the shroud it blocks the rear most
cutouts that would otherwise be handy
for routing front IO cables longer power
supplies will block even more room for
bundling cables is limited and storing
any cables behind the motherboard tray
makes the side panel much harder to get
back on and the motherboard tray is
flexible enough that smashing the cables
against it isn't a very good idea you
could end up with a direct short the
hard drive cage is removable but builds
that use one or more three and a half
inch drives will prove very difficult to
cable manage so make sure you couple
this with if possible in the budget a
modular power supply otherwise you're
gonna be jamming a lot of cables into
places the hard drive cage holds a
single sled with mounting holes for one
additional three and a half drive on the
roof of the cage there are three two and
a half inch drive trays included and
four mounting locations for them two
behind the motherboard tray and two on
top of the power supply shroud this case
isn't ideal for builds that use any
three and a half inch drives at all
since the drive cage takes up such
valuable space and that may not be ideal
for targeting the budget market front
i/o is two USB 3.0 ports one USB 2.0 and
a combined mic headphone jack the manual
shows a USB type-c port in one image but
this is not present in the final product
we like the vertical i/o arrangement and
the minimal labeling we don't like the
fact that the i/o is wired to the front
panel itself and pulls off with it this
is another aspect
the build that is pretty old if you're
familiar with cases or have had any
amount of time working with computers
even without the cables attaching to the
front i/o the front panel would still be
hard to detach the clips holding it on
are exceptionally stiff even after
several cycles of replacing and removing
it we use the screwdriver to help pry it
off at one point which did help a lot
but that obviously risks damage it
doesn't have to be this way removing the
front panel isn't necessary for
installing fans or radiators at the
front of the case and for cleaning out
the front dust filter which by the way
isn't removable from the front panel
it's a woven layer glued onto the frame
behind the externally visible metal mesh
the filter itself seems relatively
breathable and unproblematic for the
most part but not being able to remove
it and clean it will create headaches
down the road for anyone who doesn't
decide to just rip it out again removing
the front panel is a necessary part of
using and maintaining this case and that
panel is attached to the case by the
cables so although you could work with
it and detach everything it takes some
extra time so if you wanted to bring the
panel over the sink to clean it out it's
not as simple as it would be with
something else even if there isn't much
room to use them we really like the tie
points that Silverstone has come up with
rather than pressing out a loop large
enough for a velcro strap they simply
drill out four holes in a flower pattern
and then press them out together into a
lump through which a zip tie or twist I
can be easily passed horizontally or
vertically the price bracket this case
falls into doesn't exactly merit
spending extra money on reusable velcro
ties that will be hidden away anyway so
zip ties are perfectly adequate for this
the end result is a neat small feature
that's probably less expensive to
produce than normal cable tie points and
actually works really well we've talked
at length about EA TX and the fact that
it's not a real specification
Silverstone was one of our sources for
that piece and they informed us in no
uncertain terms that Silverstone only
uses quote EA TX to refer to full 12 by
13 inch motherboards even to the point
of butting heads with other
manufacturers about it accordingly the
farah family of cases is not referred to
as EA TX or SSI EE B or SSI C EB which
are all terms that Silverstone uses
accurately for other cases the faro r1
is referred to as a standard a
ix case 12 inches by nine point six
inches which is about as specific as
it's possible to be however there are
some standoff holes in the motherboard
that are marked with E which appeared to
line up with EB spacing silverstone has
made absolutely no claims about
supporting e-atx just to be clear which
is good given how cramped it would be
but they also haven't constructed the
case in a way that would prevent people
from trying it and we like that it's
possible to try if you really wanted to
but that it's not marketed this way so
they've kind of left it up to you to
decide if you want to try and fit one of
the smaller ei TX boards in the case
without making a claim that just simply
isn't true like most the other
manufacturers would do silverstone has
taken a similarly modest approach to
their radiator support claims the front
of the case can fit three 120mm fans but
silverstone doesn't try to claim that
360 mil radiators will fit it might be
possible almost with the fans mounted on
the outer face of the chassis inside the
front panel but it wouldn't be pretty
the distance from the front fan mounts
to the front edge of the standard ATX
motherboard mounting is 10 centimeters
from the front fan mounted the back of
the fan cutout on the front edge of the
power supply shroud it's 3 centimeters
and from the top of the case to the top
edge of the motherboard it's about 2.6
centimeters
those reference points should be enough
to help anyone trying to squeeze in a
larger radiator but additional clearance
information for air coolers is also
available in the manual PDF we also
noticed that there are two 120mm fan
mounts on the surface of the power
supply shroud silverstone mentions that
nothing of these probably because
they're obstructed by the power supply
and they're unusable if the internal two
and a half inch drive trays are mounted
on top of them if only one drive tray is
needed and if the power supply isn't too
long the mount towards the front of the
case might actually be usable as an
additional intake fan for the GPU
obviously that's not officially
recommended but we again appreciate the
same approach of having the option and
not having the manufacturer try to claim
that it will definitely work and
completely improve your life with the
bill given that silverstone intends to
use this tool in for multiple cases
perhaps another related chassis will
officially support EE B motherboards or
fans on top of the PSE you in the future
let's get into the
Thermal testing the first chart will
show only the Farah r1 and the RL o6
we'll save the comparative tests for
next the only stock fan in the whole
case is positioned directly behind the
CPU so if anything at all is getting
cooled it's that during the torture test
we logged an average CPU temperature of
65 degrees Celsius telson see over
ambiens almost at the point of
throttling but we never dropped clocks
even with no fans mounted directly
behind the front panel removing the
panel proves beneficial with a drop down
to 57 degrees over ambient as the rear
exhaust fan could more effectively pull
air from the front of the case and
create the pressure system needed to
rush cool air in a drop is expected from
panel removal in every instance but the
larger the drop the more obstructive the
panel is in this instance an eighth
degree drop wouldn't typically be as
significant but the lack of front fans
makes it more important for tastic
usually removing the front panel results
in better thermals than any of our other
tests but using the RL o6s fans in the
farah r1 with its front panel resulted
in a significantly lower CPU temperature
of 50 degrees even with the obstructions
of the front panel and the filter is
still there stopping more fans in a case
really does work especially with a mesh
front panel the original RL o six
measured at about 48 degrees for the
same test marking the r1 a poor
successor to the original it's got
potential but it really needs the fans
to realize it and then you might as well
just buy a more expensive case in many
instances like the P 400 a because you'd
be spending about the same with the fans
plus the AR one compared to the other
cases we've tested 65 degrees Celsius is
terrible an easy retort is that
silverstone intends the users to add
more fans but the similarly priced
cooler master and our 600 includes two
fans and scored massively better in the
stock test vs. stock at 56 degrees
celsius over ambient adding one front
fans the NR 600 brought it down to forty
seven point one degrees Celsius over
ambience replacing the r1 single fan
with the four from the RL o six still
didn't bring it that low the RL o six
itself averaged about one degree better
than the r1 using the exact same set of
fans it's allowed to remind you but
we'll talk about that more in the noise
normalised section
are still some margin for error here as
well coolermaster skipped a filter
altogether relying on the fine mesh of
the NR 600 phone panel itself to keep
the dust out it's hard to fault
Silverstone for spending the money on a
feature that the NR 600 doesn't have but
the filter in the r1 is permanent and
non removable unlike the older RL zero
six is it feels like a regression from
the previous design GPU temperature was
61 degrees over ambient with the
standard torture workload that we use
for our torture testing it also improves
by several degrees with the front panel
removed down to 54 degrees
there's no intake fan pointed at the GPU
and the only exhaust fan in the case is
above the level of the backplate so any
improvement in temperature here is just
due to unsealing the case and keeping
the hot air from building up inside a
single exhaust fan isn't adequate buy
more fans in order to use this case
giving the GPU direct airflow with the
RL 0 6 fans lowered temperatures further
down to 51 degrees Celsius over ambient
since we only control fan speed on the
test systems GPU it's free to adjust
clocks up or down based on thermal
Headroom so thermal differences usually
aren't as dramatic as the CPUs the
original rlo vi at about forty seven
point one degrees in this test when
stock comparative GPU thermals are next
61 degrees Celsius on the GPU is again
right at the top end of some of the
hottest cases we've tested the NR 600
average 54 degrees delta T over ambient
with its stock fans which in the context
of the original review for that case
wasn't overly impressive but it's a
definite improvement over the r1 the
original RL oh six average forty seven
point one degrees GPU temperature one of
the best stock results we've ever seen
but the r1 misses that mark by a few
degrees
still 51 degrees delta theory' ambient
would have put it on the cooler side of
the chart along side cases like the
cooler master aged 500 blanc mesh
specifically the blank and the corsair
570 ex this case would have the
potential to be high performance if the
right fans were purchased for it the
fire strike extreme stress test
confirmed what the torture test showed
with an identical GPU temperature of 61
degrees over ambient that's just as high
relative to the rest of the chart as the
torture result was but the cpu results
is also warm with 35 degrees in this
test
placing it above most the other results
on the chart even without a load on the
CPU hot air builds up at the top of the
case and can't be effectively exhausted
by a single fan blender is a serious
workload by CV benchmarking standards
but compared to the torture workloads we
used for case torture testing it's
relatively light the cpu render averaged
40 degrees over ambient only a couple
degrees warmer than the NR 638 degrees
but much further toward the hot end of
the chart smaller differences mean more
here due to the nature of the test the
original RL o6 did 34 degrees out doing
that successor markedly the GPU
accelerated render a verdict Rees on the
GPU
while the NR 600 averaged 27 degrees
neither of these temperatures compared
to cases with GPU focused cooling like
the SL 600 M which averaged 22 degrees
over ambient in this test if we haven't
set it enough by now this case needs an
extra fan at the very least preferably
an intake directed towards the GPU our
standardized fan test is one that we
added by community requests it's useful
but it can also be misleading so we'd
encourage you to watch our testing
methodology content about this test to
understand why before you paste the
results all over the internet without
understanding them the standardized
fantast is an extremely appropriate one
for this case specifically but only if
the intention truly is for customers to
buy their own fans see me a temperature
here is 48 degrees lower than any other
test utilizing a torture workload that
we did in this case that ties it with
the coarser 220 T airflow just slightly
warmer than the ever popular fractal
match of icees temperature of 47 degrees
Celsius as well these are all within
error of each other the r1 finally beat
the NR six hundreds of average here with
cooler Master's case a couple degrees
warmer at 51 degrees C via thermals in
the r1 don't have to be bad with fans
equalized the r1 outperforms many more
expensive cases that stock line really
illustrates how far it is from the rest
when left alone though GPU temperatures
with the standard knock to a fans
averaged 55 degrees that's more toward
the middle of the case as we've tested
so far and definitely above the NR 600
at 50 degrees we try to stick to a
normal layout for the standardized fan
test with two 140 ml front intake fans
above the level of power supply shroud
and one back
120ml fan so the NR 600 gained the
advantage here by forcing ours to mount
one of the 140 ml intakes partially
below the level of ESU shroud where it
could more strongly benefit the GPU
create a fan placement could narrow the
gap between the two cases in this test
but this is one of the instances where
standardized fantasti isn't always as
standard as people like to think it is
and a surprise to nobody putting a
single fan in the very rear of the case
makes it quiet we measured the noise
level of the r-1 with case fans at max
case case fan at max speed and the CPU
and GPU fan controlled as usually at our
usual 20-inch distance at a reading of
36 DBA
that's exactly the threshold for our
noise normalized testing we can treat
the standard torture results as noise
normalized results but even for this
test it seems that the r1 could have
benefited from more fans running at a
lower rpm the 65 degree average CPU
temperature is higher than any case
we've run through the noise normalize
testing so far other than the DIY PC
Zonda o the GPU temperature of 61
degrees is higher than any except the
BitFenix and so the Zonda o may be old
and ridiculously cheap but it comes with
three fans one of which is aimed at the
GPU it's also the flimsiest case we've
ever worked with so you win some when
you lose some we want to like the r1 and
to some extent we do this is a very
function focused product it's something
that Silverstone is well known for their
adherence to strict SSI ee b
nomenclature is one of the things that
illustrates what silverstone cares about
which is being pedantic in a good way
and trying to get a functional product
that people understand without
overselling its features they've done
all those things and silverstone
deserves tremendous praise for that
because as we stated in the script in
the build section there's a lot of small
stuff on here where they could kind of
get away with advertising support for a
360 ml or kind of get away with
advertising fan mounts on the top of the
power supply shroud that would mostly do
nothing on this particular case but they
didn't do that because silverstone
understands that those things are
questionable at best and so it's best to
just let the user try it if they want to
but not actually push it as a major
point because then the user wants to try
it that's on that but Silverstone's not
going to
market something that's only halfway or
accidentally a feature that won't be
wide support across I look at ei TX for
example you can kind of fit at some of
you ATX boards in there but it'd be
awfully tight and it wouldn't be
particularly fun to work with and some
won't fit so silverstone has accounted
for that so we give them a bit a lot of
praise for that build quality is overall
improved but there are lo6 still beats
it in some ways like the front panel on
the o6 wasn't attached physically to the
front i/o so it had things that
benefitted it beyond thermals and this
is just seen worth where silverstone has
come from and where the farah r1 lands
disappointing really is the best word
for it now it's got upsides we've
described them mostly build quality
paint quality stuff like that and you
can account for a lot of this with
buying extra fans but it's just not
really what we want to see you stock in
terms of the case overall it's supposed
to be $60 or 65 with tempered glass
everything about this case implies
that's very low margin or that they've
done their best to trim the fat where
they can we'd love to have a for fan our
l06 back at its original MSRP of 75
dollars but it doesn't seem like that's
going to happen that was also in the
days of the lower tariffs and and even
with the old acrylic panel that'd be
fine but it's a sad reality of making
and selling cases that they're not going
to stick around forever even when
there's some of the best ones we believe
the fara are ones main competition is
the cooler master and our 600 which
reviewed fairly well in our review it's
got relatively similar appearance except
not available in white that's
potentially a key difference for some
people it has a tempered glass side
panel it has a mesh front it's got the
ultra fine mesh so there's no dust
filter that's a bit of a trend to this
year as well the NR 600 includes two
fans that the managed to outmatch the r1
is a single exhaust fan unsurprisingly
and it also trims another few dollars
off the PC shopping less because if you
buy this you do need to buy at least one
fan and that adds to the cost the case
it's not 60 anymore now it's maybe 67 or
70 it's not 65 a tempered glass is like
70 something so should be about the same
price between the NR 600 and this is the
key phrase here because as
writing it's difficult to find if not
impossible the NR 600 near its MSRP of
$70 Coolermaster increased its cased
pricing by about 18% as a result of the
tariffs and that really kind of knocks
them out of the range that we're looking
at so the are one that might be the only
advantage it needs here it's good to see
some tight competition for the budget
space it's unfortunate that the
competition requires an extra fan so it
kind of exits what we consider to be a
proper budget solution which would be 50
to 60 bucks and becomes more of like a
low low mid-range $70 case and there's a
lot of really good cases once you start
getting up into the 75 range so where
that leaves this case is that in an
objective sense in a vacuum it is a good
case meaning as it's designed it's good
but it needs an extra fan in a relative
sense where other cases exist it is
thermally inferior in a massive way and
that might be the difference of you
buying something else instead so that's
what it boils down to the way we cut it
is this if you like the case you like
how it looks you like the features of it
and you can stomach a fan purchase
because maybe it's not that big of a
difference to your budget then they're
not a ton of reasons we would advise
against it other than some related to
drives things like that that we've
mentioned you shouldn't have a ton of
reservations if you like everything you
see cases are of course also very
subjective so that matters but in an
objective sense it is not what we would
call good out of the back of the box in
fact it's quite bad out of the box so
yeah that's a massive downside and we
expect better Silverstone but they've
delivered elsewhere so it's a bit mixed
on this one and that will cap it for now
so thank you for watching subscribe for
more as always go to store documents
nexus net or patreon.com slash gamers
nexus helps out directly subscribe for
more we'll see you all next time
[Music]